ABOUT yOS
----------------
yOS started as a simple portfolio website — a Windows 2000-looking desktop where you could
click icons on desktop mockup to see my projects in a fun os-like way, running as a regular SvelteKit app. 
The windows, taskbar and desktop were nothing more than Svelte components styled to look like an OS.

I hit the first wall when I wanted applications to be more than just simple components. I wanted to have
a centralised way to manage application state, keep track of opened windows, and generally have a more 
realistic application launching and management system.

I started looking at projects like OS.js, but they didn't match what I already knew about Linux and X11 system,
and started wondering if I can improve on those ideas and make something that works more like a real OS under the hood, 
with a real kernel, display server and window manager.

So I started rewriting everything. First I implemented a simple kernel with process management, in-memory virtual filesystem,
an service that worked as merge of X11 server and client library and a window manager that used this service object directly
to manage windows. It resembled a real OS much more, but I was still bothered by the fact that apps are baked into the 
OS source code. I wanted them to be completely separate, with ability to download them from the network, save them as
actual executable files on the filesystem and run them dynamically by loading their code.

After I discovered the Function constructor (which I had no idea about before), everything clicked and I was able to implement
a system where apps and libraries are fully separate from the kernel, can be downloaded and saved to the filesystem and
then loaded and executed dynamically by the kernel.
I had to rewrite the weird X11-like system I had, to actually be split into a server - application that does all the things
X11 does, and a client library that can be loaded by any app and can communicate with the server over sockets.

The most recent rewrite was the VFS, which now uses IndexedDB for storage, making the filesystem persistent and more realistic, 
with asynchronous file operations and all.

Current result is a already pretty solid, but I'm yet to experiment with WebWorkers for true multi-threading, and there are a lot
of basic applications still missing, like terminal emulator, settings app and so on. 
But the core system is there, and it's pretty nice to look at it already.

The project is still in progress, so stay tuned for more updates and improvements!